###################################
CCP4i2 â€” Viewing Old CCP4i Projects
###################################

`CCP4i projects <CCP4i1Projects.html>`__

`Experimental data <data_files.html>`__

`Model data <model_data.html>`__

`Atom selection <atom_selection.html>`__

`Servers <servers.html>`__

.. container:: content

   .. rubric:: Contents
      :name: contents

   `Introduction <#introduction>`__
   `Tidying CCP4i Projects <#tidying>`__
   `Copying files into CCP4i2 projects <#copying>`__
   `Associating projects <#associating_projects>`__

Introduction
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The *CCP4i Project Viewer* in CCP4i2 will enable you to view and
organise old projects and copy data into new CCP4i2 projects but it has
no facility for running old CCP4i jobs. The viewer is accessed via *View
old CCP4i projects* on the\ *Projects* menu and has the options to
access the default projects (in the CCP4i *directories.def* in *.CCP4*
sub-directory of your home directory) or you can select a different
CCP4i *directories.def*.

|CCP4i project viewer|

The projects in the database are listed on the left-hand side of the
viewer window. If you click on a project then the *database.def* for
that project is read and the jobs and input/output files are displayed.
The input files are indicated by a red arrow on the bottom right of the
file icon. Clicking on a job will display the log file or clicking on
the file will display it either in the right side of the window or a
separate viewer. There are additional *View* options on context menus
(right mouse click on the job or file).

Tidying CCP4i Projects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If there are problems loading the old projects you can view a summary by
clicking the *Show load errors* tool. If a project directory or file is
not found it is highlighted in red in the viewer. The context menu
(right mouse click on the project or file) has a *Find* option that will
open a file browser for you to find the right directory or file. If
missing projects or files are found the old CCP4i database files are
updated.

To organise the projects there is a toolbar option to *Add folder* that
will create folders. You can drag-and-drop the projects into the
folders. Folders can be nested. The folder information is stored in a
supplementary file *your_home_area/.CCP4I2/i1supplement/folders.xml* but
note that this is only for CCP4i2 and is not understood in CCP4i.

Old CCP4i did not make copies of input data files in the project
directory but this interface has the option to *Collect input files* on
the project context menu. This will copy all found input files to an
*IMPORTED_FILES* directory in the project directory and will update the
CCP4i database file appropriately.

Copying files into CCP4i2 projects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Files listed in the CCP4i project viewer can be drag-n-dropped onto
CCP4i2 input file icons. There is also a *Copy* option on the file
context menu and a *Paste* option on the file input icon menu. If you
are moving old-style 'monster' MTZ files then you will be asked to
select the appropriate columns.

Associating projects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

|Associated project tab|

It is possible to associate an old CCP4i project with a CCP4i2 project
and then the jobs and files for the old project are listed in a tab in
the project viewer for the new project. It is easier to view and
drag-n-drop from this associated CCP4i project. To associate projects
there are two options on the CCP4i project context menu: *Make CCP4i2
project* will create a new CCP4i2 project or *Associate with CCP4i2
project* will associate with an existing project.

.. |CCP4 web logo| image:: ccp4i2.png
   :width: 75px
.. |CCP4i project viewer| image:: ./ccp4i_viewer.png
.. |Associated project tab| image:: ./associates_projects.png
